Implementation of docker-cloud project (#39)
CodeYourFuture/immersive-go-course: docker-cloud/IMPLEMENTATION.md

# docker-cloud implementation

> To get familiar with Docker, complete parts 1, 2 and 3 of [this tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/):
> 
> - Running applications with docker: `docker run -dp 80:80 docker/getting-started`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get familiar with Docker, complete parts 1, 2 and 3 of [this tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/), after which you should know about:

- Running applications with docker: `docker run -dp 80:80 docker/getting-started`
```

- Containers and images: process & filesystem isolation
- `Dockerfile`: a text-based script of instructions that is used to create a container image
- Starting, managing processes and images: `docker ps` and `docker rm -f`s

> Next work through the [Go Docker tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/language/golang/):
> 
> - Dockerising a go application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next work through the [Go Docker tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/language/golang/), after which you should know about:

- Dockerising a go application
```

- Starting and stopping containers
- Volumes & networking between docker containers
- Basics of docker-compose and CockroachDB
- GitHub actions for pushing the image to Docker Hub

> To get familiar with ECS, run through the [AWS tutorial](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/deploy-docker-containers/):
> 
> - Container & task: like a blueprint for your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get familiar with ECS, run through the [AWS tutorial](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/deploy-docker-containers/), after which you should know about:

- Container & task: like a blueprint for your application
```

- Service & load balancing: launches and maintains copies of the task definition in your cluster
- Cluster: compute resources used to run the service & load balancing

---

> The task will be to bring this all together to run a local application on Elastic Container Service:

Reviewer: "local" is an interesting word here...

```suggestion
The task will be to bring this all together to run an application that we've written on Elastic Container Service:
```

- Build a simple Go server
- Dockerise it to run locally within a container
- Write tests that run against the docker container
- Push the image to ECR (not Docker Hub)
- Launch it in ECS using the UI

> - Build GitHub actions automate CI/CD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Build GitHub actions to automate CI/CD
```

- `Dockerfile`: a text-based script of instructions that is used to create a container image
- Starting, managing processes and images: `docker ps` and `docker rm -f`s

Next work through the [Go Docker tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/language/golang/):

- Dockerising a go application
- Starting and stopping containers
- Volumes & networking between docker containers
- Basics of docker-compose and CockroachDB
- GitHub actions for pushing the image to Docker Hub

To get familiar with ECS, run through the [AWS tutorial](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/hands-on/deploy-docker-containers/):

- Container & task: like a blueprint for your application
- Service & load balancing: launches and maintains copies of the task definition in your cluster
- Cluster: compute resources used to run the service & load balancing

---

The task will be to bring this all together to run a local application on Elastic Container Service:

- Build a simple Go server
- Dockerise it to run locally within a container
- Write tests that run against the docker container
- Push the image to ECR (not Docker Hub)
- Launch it in ECS using the UI
- Build GitHub actions automate CI/CD

> ## Server
> 
> ```console
> > curl localhost:8090/ping
> pong
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Server

Write a server in Go with this behaviour:

```console
> curl localhost:8090/ping
pong
```
```

> `Dockerfile` inc multi-stage build:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write a `Dockerfile` including a multi-stage build:
```

> ```Dockerfile

Reviewer: Same questions apply as above

# syntax=docker/dockerfile:1

## Build
FROM golang:1.19-bullseye as build

WORKDIR /app

COPY go.mod .

> # COPY go.sum .

Reviewer: Why the commented line?

Author: Good q. There is no `go.sum` at this point because no deps. Once we add `dockertest` we have to include this. Will add a note.

RUN go mod download

COPY *.go ./

RUN go build -o /out

CMD [ "/out" ]

## Deploy
FROM gcr.io/distroless/base-debian11

WORKDIR /

COPY --from=build /out /out

EXPOSE 8080

USER nonroot:nonroot

ENTRYPOINT ["/out"]
```

Build & run:

```console
> docker build . -t docker-cloud
[+] Building 22.6s (15/15) FINISHED
...
> docker run -dp 8090:8090 docker-cloud
306cf309f3970d5380cd07c3a54aead7ee8cf4f6726b752fecaec39e40da69f5
> curl localhost:8090/ping
pong
```

## Tests

[dockertest](https://github.com/ory/dockertest) — principle is to test against real running services, end to end

```console
go get -u github.com/ory/dockertest/v3
```

Following [docs here](https://github.com/ory/dockertest) and [example here](https://github.com/olliefr/docker-gs-ping), write some tests.

## GitHub action to run tests

> Follow [guide on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/automating-builds-and-tests/building-and-testing-go) to get GitHub action testing the code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow [this guide on GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/automating-builds-and-tests/building-and-testing-go) to get a GitHub action testing the code.
```
